1.
With noble themes my heart and mouth are ringing,
and to the honour of the king I’m singing.
Into a hymn of praise my thoughts are strung,
and ready like a scribe’s pen is my tongue.
You are more handsome than all men around you;
O king, with lasting glory God has crowned you.
Poured on your lips is grace beyond compare;
so God has favoured you for evermore.

2.
O mighty one, our hero and defender,
gird on your sword, ride forth in pomp and splendour;
as you rejoice in triumph and success,
advance the cause of truth and righteousness.
Let your right hand teach you dread deeds of power.
Your sharpened arrows make the nations cower;
they pierce the hearts of foes who love deceit,
and so the peoples fall beneath your feet.

3.
Your throne, like God’s own throne, will stand forever;
your sceptre’s righteousness will never waver.
Justice you love and evil you detest.
Therefore you have beyond your peers been blest,
with oil of joy by God, your God, anointed.
With myrrh and spices all your robes are scented.
From palaces adorned with ivory
stringed instruments please you with melody.

4.
The queen, arrayed in Ophir’s gold, is seated
at your right hand, by noble women greeted.
Hear me, O daughter! As a royal spouse,
forget your people and your father’s house.
Then will the king desire your beauty’s splendour.
He is your lord; to him your homage render.
To you shall Tyre, your favour coveting,
the richest gifts of gold and jewels bring.

5.
Within her chamber, glorious is the princess;
her radiant beauty draws adoring glances.
She is arrayed for dazzling pageantry,
adorned with gold and rich embroidery.
She is led forth in glory and resplendence,
with throngs of royal maidens in attendance.
With joy and gladness they all shout and sing,
proceeding to the palace of the king.

6.
You will have many sons, O king most gracious;
they will be born to take your fathers’ places.
You’ll make them rulers over all the land;
your kingdom will continue without end.
Your name I will make known to all the nations,
to be remembered through the generations.
In celebration they will sing your praise
forever and forever, all their days.
