1.
O gracious God, be merciful to me,
and in your love, your infinite compassion,
blot out my sins, remove all my transgressions.
O God, have mercy. Listen to my plea!
From every taint of evil wash me clean,
and from my guilt and misery relieve me.
For I am deeply cons cious of my sin,
and all day long my misdeeds haunt and grieve me.

2.
God, you have I offended, you alone.
In mercy hear my sorrowful confession.
How evil in your sight is my transgression!
You rightfully condemn what I have done;
just is, O God, the sentence I received.
I have from birth been guilty, ever sinning;
for in iniquity was I conceived,
tainted with sin right from my life’s beginning.

3.
You teach me all the wisdom I must know,
for you want truth to dwell and rule within me.
Purge me with hyssop. Wash and fully clean me
till I am whiter than the whitest snow.
Let me hear shouts of happiness and joy,
and let the bones you crushed leap up in dances.
From my transgressions turn your face away.
Blot out my guilt, erase all my offences.

4.
Create in me a pure, clean heart, I pray;
renew a steadfast spirit deep within me.
Give me new life to strengthen and sustain me;
God, from your presence cast me not away.
Show me your mercy. Do not take from me
your Holy Spirit, but again, O Saviour,
let me the joy of your salvation see,
and make me willing to obey you ever.

5.
Then to transgressors I will teach your ways,
and sinners will return to seek your favour.
O God, from guilt of bloodshed me deliver;
then shall my tongue your saving justice praise.
I will aloud your righteousness proclaim;
you are, O God, the God of my salvation.
Lord, open then my lips to praise your name
and let me sing my songs of jubilation.

6.
Lord, you do not in sacrifice delight,
or else I would with offerings try to please you.
How could I ever with my gifts appease you?
Burnt offerings find no favour in your sight.
One gift alone is pleasing in God’s eyes:
the contrite heart of one who has repented.
A broken spirit you will not despise
when humbly as a sacrifice presented.

7.
In your good pleasure, bless Jerusalem;
cause her to thrive, and shield her with your power.
Build Zion’s walls, O God; uphold her towers,
safeguard her citadels and strengthen them.
Then you in sacrifices will delight,
in gifts of those whom you in Zion shelter;
burnt offerings will be pleasing in your sight.
Then will young bulls be offered on your altar.
