1.
God is my light, my refuge, my salvation.
Whom shall I fear? The Lord comes to my aid.
He is my strength in all my tribulation.
Of whom shall I then ever be afraid?
When foes who seek my life close in on me,
they all shall stumble and in anguish flee;
and though an army should in war draw near,
I will be confident, I will not fear.

2.
One thing have I desired of God as favour,
that I may always in his temple dwell
to view the beauty of the Lord my Saviour
and in his house to seek his holy will.
For in the day of trouble and of strife
he in his shelter will preserve my life.
Within his tent he’ll keep me at his side;
high on a rock he safety will provide.

3.
My head shall I lift up now with rejoicing
above the hostile forces round about,
and in his tent, my jubilation voicing,
my sacrifice I’ll bring with joyful shout.
I will extol the steadfast love of God,
with song and music his great mercy laud.
Lord, hear me when I call and answer me.
Show me your favour, listen to my plea.

4.
“Come, seek my face.” O Lord, so you have spoken,
and in response my heart says earnestly:
“Your face I’ll seek!” My vow will not be broken.
Lord, hear me! Do not turn away from me,
nor thrust your servant angrily aside,
for you have ever been my help and guide.
Do not forsake me, listen to my cry.
On you, O God my Saviour, I rely.

5.
My father and my mother may forsake me:
the Lord is faithful and his help is sure.
Teach me your way. O Lord and Saviour, take me,
lead me on pathways level and secure,
for evildoers lie in wait for me.
Hand me not over to their tyranny.
False witnesses against me still arise;
they breathe out malice and abusive lies.

6.
How I would have despaired in my affliction
if I had not believed that in this life
the Lord would show his goodness, his protection;
I would have perished in my tears and strife.
Wait for the Lord; be strong and undismayed.
The Lord is faithful. Why then be afraid?
Take courage, for his steadfast love is sure.
Wait for the Lord. His mercy shall endure.
